README.md, before:

# Project Therabot

**System Analysis and Design (CSCI-C308 | INFO-I450) 2025**

Therabot is a diagnostic interview training platform designed for psychology students. It simulates patient interactions using a branching dialogue system, allowing students to practice clinical skills, identify symptoms, and submit diagnoses in a risk-free environment.

---

## Project Structure

### Root Directory
*   **`docker-compose.yml`**: Orchestrates the Docker containers (Database, Backend, Frontend, phpMyAdmin).
*   **`.gitignore`**: Specifies files to be ignored by Git (node_modules, build artifacts).

### Backend (`/backend`)
*   **`src/index.ts`**: Entry point. Sets up Express, CORS, and starts the server.
*   **`src/container.ts`**: Dependency Injection container. Initializes repositories and services to ensure separation of concerns.
*   **`src/data-source.ts`**: TypeORM configuration for the MySQL database connection.
*   **`src/controller/`**: Handles HTTP requests and responses.
    *   *Examples: `AuthController.ts`, `SessionController.ts`.*
*   **`src/service/`**: Contains core business logic.
    *   `TherapySessionService.ts`: Manages chat flow and logic.
    *   `SimulationService.ts`: Handles state transitions in the dialogue graph.
    *   `SeederService.ts`: Populates the database with initial clinical data and scenarios.
    *   `ScenarioService.ts`: Manages the construction of dialogue graphs.
*   **`src/repository/`**: Abstraction layer for database access.
    *   *Examples: `BaseRepository.ts` (Generic CRUD), `TherapySessionRepository.ts`.*
*   **`src/entity/`**: Database Models (TypeORM Entities).
    *   *Examples: `ScenarioEntity.ts`, `DialogueNodeEntity.ts`, `TherapistEntity.ts`.*
*   **`src/routes/`**: Route definitions.
    *   `api.routes.ts`: Public and authenticated User/Chat routes.
    *   `admin.routes.ts`: Administrative routes for managing content.
*   **`src/middleware/`**: Express middleware.
    *   `authMiddleware.ts`: JWT verification and RBAC (Role-Based Access Control).
*   **`src/utils/`**: Helper utilities.
    *   `AppError.ts`, `catchAsync.ts`: Centralized error handling.

### Frontend (`/frontend`)
*   **`src/main.ts`**: Client-side entry point. Handles routing and DOM manipulation.
*   **`src/pages/`**: Logic for individual pages.
    *   `ChatPage.ts`: Main simulation interface.
    *   `AdminPage.ts`: Dashboard for managing DB entities.
    *   `HomePage.ts`, `LoginPage.ts`, `ProfilePage.ts`, etc.
*   **`src/pages/templates/`**: Raw HTML strings loaded by page logic.
    *   *Examples: `ChatPage.html`, `AdminPage.html`.*
*   **`src/pages/admin/`**: Modular components for the Admin Dashboard.
    *   `ScenarioBuilder.ts`: Visual node-graph editor (Drawflow integration).
    *   `Table.ts`: Generic data table renderer.
    *   `Form.ts`: Dynamic form generator for creating/editing entities.
    *   `api.ts`: Admin-specific API fetch wrappers.
*   **`src/utils/`**: Frontend helpers.
    *   `auth.ts`: JWT storage, retrieval, and decoding.
    *   `theme.ts`: Dark/Light mode logic and custom web component.

---

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:
*   **Git** ([Download](https://git-scm.com/downloads))
*   **Docker** ([Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/))

---

## Installation Instructions

### Download the Project via Git

Open your terminal (Command Prompt, PowerShell, or Terminal) and run the following commands to download the source code:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/AndrewWHans/system-analysis-design-capstone.git

# Navigate into the project directory
cd system-analysis-design-capstone
```
---

## Docker Setup

This project is containerized using Docker, which sets up the Database (MySQL), Backend (Node/Express), and Frontend (Vite/React) automatically.

### How to Build and Run the Containers

Ensure Docker Desktop is running properly by opening it and seeing if there's any errors on the initial application window, then execute the following command in the project root (where `docker-compose.yml` is located), this may take a while depending on your computer's specs:

```bash
# Build images and start containers
docker-compose up --build
```

## Accessing the Application

Once the containers are running, you can access the system via your web browser:

*   **Frontend (User Interface):** [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173)
*   **Backend API (Test if the API is working):** [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
*   **Database (External Access):** [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)
    *   User: `root`
    *   Password: `root`
    *   Database: `therabot`

---

## Default Admin User Credentials

The application automatically creates an Admin account upon the first successful database connection. You can use these credentials to log in and access the Admin Dashboard:

*   **Username:** `admin`
*   **Password:** `admin`

*Note: You can create new standard user accounts via the "Sign Up" page on the frontend, the account above is just for administrators to be able to use the administrative backend without having to create an admin account every time the docker container is rebuilt.*

---

### Stopping the Application
To stop the containers, press `Ctrl+C` in the terminal where Docker is running, then run:

```bash
docker-compose down
```

---

### Cleaning the Database
If you need to wipe the database and start fresh (e.g., if schema changes or data is corrupted), run the following commands:

```bash
# 1. Stop containers and remove network
docker-compose down

# 2. Remove the persistent database volume
docker volume rm system-analysis-design-capstone_db_data

# 3. Prune unused volumes to free space
docker volume prune -f
```

---

### Common Issue(s)

1. If you're on a older Windows 10/11 computer that hasn't had a Windows update in a while, you may need to update the Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL) so that Docker can work properly. To do this run the following command in a terminal:

```bash
# Update Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL)
wsl --update
```

Commit message:

Changed Admin Configuration page to be called Admin Dashboard & updated README with additional info

README.md, after:

# Project Therabot

**System Analysis and Design (CSCI-C308 | INFO-I450) 2025**

Therabot is a diagnostic interview training platform designed for psychology students. It simulates patient interactions using a branching dialogue system, allowing students to practice clinical skills, identify symptoms, and submit diagnoses in a risk-free environment.

---

## Project Structure

### Root Directory
*   **`docker-compose.yml`**: Orchestrates the Docker containers (Database, Backend, Frontend, phpMyAdmin).
*   **`.gitignore`**: Specifies files to be ignored by Git (node_modules, build artifacts).

### Backend (`/backend`)
*   **`src/index.ts`**: Entry point. Sets up Express, CORS, and starts the server.
*   **`src/container.ts`**: Dependency Injection container. Initializes repositories and services to ensure separation of concerns.
*   **`src/data-source.ts`**: TypeORM configuration for the MySQL database connection.
*   **`src/controller/`**: Handles HTTP requests and responses.
    *   *Examples: `AuthController.ts`, `SessionController.ts`.*
*   **`src/service/`**: Contains core business logic.
    *   `TherapySessionService.ts`: Manages chat flow and logic.
    *   `SimulationService.ts`: Handles state transitions in the dialogue graph.
    *   `SeederService.ts`: Populates the database with initial clinical data and scenarios.
    *   `ScenarioService.ts`: Manages the construction of dialogue graphs.
*   **`src/repository/`**: Abstraction layer for database access.
    *   *Examples: `BaseRepository.ts` (Generic CRUD), `TherapySessionRepository.ts`.*
*   **`src/entity/`**: Database Models (TypeORM Entities).
    *   *Examples: `ScenarioEntity.ts`, `DialogueNodeEntity.ts`, `TherapistEntity.ts`.*
*   **`src/routes/`**: Route definitions.
    *   `api.routes.ts`: Public and authenticated User/Chat routes.
    *   `admin.routes.ts`: Administrative routes for managing content.
*   **`src/middleware/`**: Express middleware.
    *   `authMiddleware.ts`: JWT verification and RBAC (Role-Based Access Control).
*   **`src/utils/`**: Helper utilities.
    *   `AppError.ts`, `catchAsync.ts`: Centralized error handling.

### Frontend (`/frontend`)
*   **`src/main.ts`**: Client-side entry point. Handles routing and DOM manipulation.
*   **`src/pages/`**: Logic for individual pages.
    *   `ChatPage.ts`: Main simulation interface.
    *   `AdminPage.ts`: Dashboard for managing DB entities.
    *   `HomePage.ts`, `LoginPage.ts`, `ProfilePage.ts`, etc.
*   **`src/pages/templates/`**: Raw HTML strings loaded by page logic.
    *   *Examples: `ChatPage.html`, `AdminPage.html`.*
*   **`src/pages/admin/`**: Modular components for the Admin Dashboard.
    *   `ScenarioBuilder.ts`: Visual node-graph editor (Drawflow integration).
    *   `Table.ts`: Generic data table renderer.
    *   `Form.ts`: Dynamic form generator for creating/editing entities.
    *   `api.ts`: Admin-specific API fetch wrappers.
*   **`src/utils/`**: Frontend helpers.
    *   `auth.ts`: JWT storage, retrieval, and decoding.
    *   `theme.ts`: Dark/Light mode logic and custom web component.

---

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:
*   **Git** ([Download](https://git-scm.com/downloads))
*   **Docker** ([Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/))

---

## Installation Instructions

### Download the Project via Git

Open your terminal (Command Prompt, PowerShell, or Terminal) and run the following commands to download the source code:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/AndrewWHans/system-analysis-design-capstone.git

# Navigate into the project directory
cd system-analysis-design-capstone
```
---

## Docker Setup

This project is containerized using Docker, which sets up the Database (MySQL), Backend (Node/Express), and Frontend (Vite) automatically.

### How to Build and Run the Containers

Ensure Docker Desktop is running properly by opening it and seeing if there's any errors on the initial application window, then execute the following command in the project root (where `docker-compose.yml` is located), this may take a while depending on your computer's specs:

```bash
# Build images and start containers
docker-compose up --build
```

## Accessing the Application

Once the containers are running, you can access the system via your web browser:

*   **Frontend (User Interface):** [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173)
*   **Backend API (Test if the API is working):** [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
*   **Database (External Access):** [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)
    *   User: `root`
    *   Password: `root`
    *   Database: `therabot`

---

## Default Admin User Credentials

The application automatically creates an admin account upon the first successful database connection. You can use these credentials to log in and access the admin dashboard:

*   **Username:** `admin`
*   **Password:** `admin`

*Note: You can create new standard user accounts via the "Sign Up" page on the frontend, the account above is just for administrators to be able to use the administrative backend without having to create an admin account every time the docker container is rebuilt.*

---

### Stopping the Application
To stop the containers, press `Ctrl+C` in the terminal where Docker is running, then run:

```bash
docker-compose down
```

---

### Cleaning the Database
If you need to wipe the database and start fresh (e.g., if schema changes or data is corrupted), run the following commands:

```bash
# 1. Stop containers and remove network
docker-compose down

# 2. Remove the persistent database volume
docker volume rm system-analysis-design-capstone_db_data

# 3. Prune unused volumes to free space
docker volume prune -f
```

---

### Creating Additional Default Data
If you want to create additional default data that gets created in the database once the docker container starts go to `backend/src/service/SeederService.ts` and add whatever data you want. There are examples of how to do this in the SeederService file as well.

---

### Common Issue(s)

1. If you're on a older Windows 10/11 computer that hasn't had a Windows update in a while, you may need to update the Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL) so that Docker can work properly. To do this run the following command in a terminal:

```bash
# Update Windows Subsystem for Linux(WSL)
wsl --update
```
